Docs 8834 service mesh architecture changes and misc pa (#99)
mulesoft/docs-service-mesh: modules/ROOT/pages/create-an-api-configure-service-mesh-CLI.adoc

+
If you want to create REST or SOAP APIs with OAS or WSDL definition, use Anypoint Platform. 
+

> If you want to upload a REST API or OAS asset type, you must use a .json or .yaml file. Alternatively, if you want to upload a SOAP API or WSDL asset type, use a .wsdl or .xml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to upload a REST API or OAS asset type, use a `.json` or .`yaml` file. If you want to upload a SOAP API or WSDL asset type, use a `.wsdl` or `.xml` file.
```
If you look at the Style Ref. entry for "modal verbs," you will notice that we really don't need to say "you must"; just using the imperative "<do>" is a command, a "must"
Also, it is incorrect to call the other files "alternatives" because they are not equitable choices: they are required in those environments.

* <<create-api-autocreate,Create an API using the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature>>
+

> You can configure Anypoint Service Mesh to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform (no manual logging required). When the REST or SOAP APIs are automatically created with Anypoint Service Mesh, the APIs are still managed internally as an HTTP asset without any definition. 

Reviewer: I *think* we can avoid some of complication in this text by narrowing it to this:
```suggestion
To avoid performing manual logging, you can configure Anypoint Service Mesh to automatically create an HTTP API in Anypoint Platform. The automatically created APIs are managed internally just as any other HTTP asset, except that they are not defined. 
```
Question: is the manual task LOGGING or are we talking about manual CREATION? The current first sentence implies that the options are automatic creation vs. manual logging, and I don't think of creating and logging as the same action.

+

> You can use any of the following options for authenticating the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use any of the following options to authenticate the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature:
```
Question: why would you need to authenticate a feature? How can a feature not be authentic? 
Is there a better word? 
Are we saying rather that the person implementing the feature needs to be authenticated (have access or permission) to do so?

Author: You can use any of the following options for authentication when creating an API using the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature:
Changed

** Using <<create-api-ASM-CLI, user credentials>>
+
Use the username and password authentication option if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform.  
** Using <<create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps, Connected Apps credentials>>
+

> Use the xref:access-management::connected-apps-overview.adoc[Connected Apps] authentication option if your users are managed by an external identity provider (IdP).

Reviewer: Per intro rewording above, if you use it...:

** Using <<create-api-ASM-CLI, user credentials>>, if your users are managed by Anypoint Platform
** Using <<create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps, Connected Apps credentials>>, if your users are managed by an external identity provider (IdP)

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
Your API is now created.

[[create-api-autocreate]]
== Create an API Using the Anypoint Service Mesh Autocreate Feature

> When you configure the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature, an API is automatically created for you. How you authenticate your user for the create transaction depends on whether your users are managed by Anypoint Platform or an external IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature automatically creates APIs for your users if they are properly authenticated. How you authenticate these users depends on whether they are managed by Anypoint Platform or by an external IdP.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[create-api-ASM-CLI]]

> === Autocreate by Using Your User Credentials

Reviewer: The previous sentence introduces two options: managed by AP or IdP. So that is what the titles should be: managed by AP or IdP:

```suggestion
=== Authenticate Users Managed by Anypoint Platform
```

Author: The main task here is not that we authenticate users, but to autocreate an API. I'll leave the heading as is. Done! Thanks!

> If your users are managed by Anypoint Platform, use the username and password credentials for authentication. Before you configure the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature, ensure that you obtain the:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your users are managed by Anypoint Platform, use their username and password credentials for authentication. Before you configure the Anypoint Service Mesh autocreate feature, ensure that you obtain the:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * Environment ID and organization ID. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Environment ID and organization ID
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
To obtain these details, go to *API Manager > Environment Information*.

> * Manage APIs Configuration permission for the environment where you are creating the API Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Manage APIs Configuration permission for the environment where you are creating the API instance
```
Is "Manage APIs Configuration" really the name of the permission?

Author: Yes! Done! Thanks!

> * Exchange Contributor permission for the business group where you are creating the asset.

Reviewer: ditto: that's the name, Exchange Contributor?
```suggestion
* Exchange Contributor permission for the business group in which you are creating the asset
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> To autocreate using user credentials, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To authenticate users to enable the autocreate feature, perform the following steps:
```

Author: To autocreate APIs using user credentials, perform the following steps:

Done! Thanks!

The API that was created is displayed.

> . Optionally, you can verify that an asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally verify that an asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

[[create-api-ASM-CLI-ConnAps]]

> === Autocreate by Using Your Connected Apps Credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Authenticate Users Managed by an IdP
```

Author: Autocreate APIs for Users Managed by an IdP

Done! Thanks!

If your users are managed by Anypoint Platform or an external IdP, use the Connected App credentials for authentication. Before you configure the autocreate feature, ensure that:

> * You xref:obtain-connected-apps-credentials.adoc[Obtain the client ID and client secret credentials] from Connected Apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You xref:obtain-connected-apps-credentials.adoc[obtain the client ID and client secret credentials] from Connected Apps.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * The ID of the group of assets on Exchange, for example, the organization ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You obtain the ID of the group of assets on Exchange, for example, the organization ID.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* The client credentials has the:
** Exchange Contributor permission for publishing the API to Exchange
** Manage API Configuration permission for managing the API in API Manager

> To autocreate using Connected Apps, perform the following steps:

Reviewer: parallel with previous:
```suggestion
To authenticate users to enable the autocreate feature, perform the following steps:
```

Author: To autocreate APIs using Connected Apps, perform the following steps:

Done! Thanks!

. Using Anypoint Service Mesh, type the following command to create the API:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
asmctl api create
--name=_Kubernetes API resource name_ \
--namespace=_namespace name_ \
--environmentId=_environment ID_ \
--groupId=_(Optional) group ID of the asset, for example, organization ID_ \
--assetId=_asset ID on Exchange_ \
--version=_asset version of the instance on exchange_ \
--instanceLabel=_label of the instance on API Manager_ \
--specTags=_list of comma separated tags to be added to the asset on Exchange_ \
--instanceTags=_list of comma separated tags to be added to the instance on API Manager_ \
--clientId=_ID of the Anypoint Platform Connected Apps, using which to create the API instance_ \
--clientSecret=_client secret of the Anypoint Platform Connected Apps, using which to create the API instance_
----
+

> [%header%autowidth.spread]

Reviewer: Do we REALLY need this table, given the text to the right of each equals symbol (=) in the syntax?
I'd omit it...or make it a supporting Reference topic....

Author: Yes because users miss reading it when given as part of the code. Done! Thanks!

| `groupId` | The ID of the group of assets on Exchange, for example, the organization ID, which you can obtain from the API Manager landing page or in Access Management | Optional | Organization ID of the organization that contains the environment. 
| `assetId` | The ID of the assets that are a part of an organization, in alphanumeric characters without spaces | Required | Not applicable
| `version` | The version of the asset on Exchange, in the semantic versioning format for major, minor, and patch releases | Required | Not applicable
| `instanceLabel` | The ID of the API instances of an asset within a given environment, in alphanumeric characters without spaces | Required | Not applicable
| `specTags` | Tags to add to the asset on Exchange |  Optional | Not applicable
| `instanceTags` | Tags to add to the API instance on API Manager |  Optional | Not applicable
| `clientId` | The client ID of the Anypoint Platform Connected App used to create the API | Required | Not applicable
| `clientSecret` | The client secret of the Anypoint Platform Connected App used to create the API | Required | Not applicable
|===
+

> . Verify the API status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the API was created by listing all APIs:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

`asmctl api list`
+

> The new API is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

. Optionally, verify that an Exchange asset is created on Exchange and an API is created on API Manager.

== See Also

> 

Reviewer: First edit section completed;
BREAK HERE to return comments.

Reviewer: RESTART
